
- Which of the following best describes one of the limitations of Large language models?
	- A: Occurrence of hallucinations
- Which types of tasks can LLMs perform? Select all that apply.
	- A: Text conversion, Question-answering and generating text, classifying text
- What is NOT a possible way to handle input text that exceeds the maximum number of tokens supported by a LLM?
	- A. Increase the token limit of the model
- LLMs may exhibit biases in their outputs due to?
	- A. Biases originating from their training data
- What is the objective of the `llm_chain` object in the provided code wrt the defined prompt (`qs_str` variable)?
```python
long_prompt = PromptTemplate(template=multi_template, 
							 input_variables=["questions"]) 
llm_chain = LLMChain( prompt=long_prompt, llm=davinci ) 
qs_str = ( 
		  "What is the capital city of France?\n" + 
		  "What is the largest mammal on Earth?\n" + 
		  "Which gas is most abundant in Earth's atmosphere?\n" + 
		  "What color is a ripe banana?\n" ) 
		  
llm_chain.run(qs_str)
```
A. To use a prompt template to ask multiple questions in a simple way

- What are the 2 potential pitfalls or limitations regarding LLMs? (only 1 answer is correct)
	- Limited context size and potential hallucinations
- Consider the following piece of code. What is the correct way to prepare the prompt wrt the choice of model. (select the best option to fill the ... mark)
```python
from langchain.chat_models import ChatOpenAI 
from langchain.prompts.chat import ChatPromptTemplate, SystemMessagePromptTemplate, HumanMessagePromptTemplate

model = ChatOpenAI(model_name="gpt-3.5-turbo", temperature=0) 

system_message_prompt = SystemMessagePromptTemplate.from_template("You are a helpful assistant.") 
human_message_prompt = HumanMessagePromptTemplate.from_template("Translate '{word}' in italian.") 

chat_prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_messages([system_message_prompt, human_message_prompt]) 
response = model( [...] )
```
A. `chat_prompt.format_prompt(word='house').to_messages()`

- Taking into account the definitions of various message types (System, human, AI) for engaging with chat models, which messages are contextually correct wrt their types? (select all that apply)
	- `SystemMessage(content="You are a helpful assistant that translates English to French")`
	- `HumanMessage(content="Translate the following sentence to German: I love programming")`
	- `AIMessage(content="Paris is the capital of France")`
