### **Table of contents**

- [[#Understanding LLMs and Chat models|Understanding LLMs and Chat models]]
	- [[#Understanding LLMs and Chat models#LLMs|LLMs]]
	- [[#Understanding LLMs and Chat models#Chat models|Chat models]]
					- [[#Chat message types|Chat message types]]
					- [[#An example of using ChatOpenAI with a HumanMessage|An example of using ChatOpenAI with a HumanMessage]]
- [[#Reference links|Reference links]]

Notebook link: [Click here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1ziTn4Z5s_SPZnEClz_TKZov7HmigCcSj?usp=sharing)

---

LLMs and Chat Models are two types of models in LangChain, serving different purposes in natural language processing tasks. This lesson will examine the differences between LLMs and Chat Models, their unique use cases, and how they are implemented within LangChain.

# Understanding LLMs and Chat models
## LLMs
- LLMs, such as GPT-3, Bloom, PaLM, and [Aurora genAI](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/intel-delivers-ai-accelerated-hpc-performance.html#gs.ywqfxl) → text in and text out. 
- They are trained on language modeling tasks and can generate human-like text, perform complex reasoning, and even write code. 
- are powerful and flexible, capable of generating text for a wide range of tasks. However, they can sometimes produce incorrect or nonsensical answers, and their _API is less structured_ compared to Chat Models.

- Pre-training these models involves presenting large-scale corpora to them and allowing the network to predict the next word, which results in learning the relationships between words. 
- This learning process enables LLMs to generate high-quality text, which can be applied to applications, such as automatic form-filling and predictive text on smartphones.
- The goal of domain specific LLMs is to increase the performance on a particularly domain, while still being able to solve the majority of tasks that general LLM can manage.

```python
from langchain.llms import OpenAI
from langchain.chains import LLMChain
from langchain.prompts import PromptTemplate

# Before executing the following code, make sure to have
# your OpenAI key saved in the “OPENAI_API_KEY” environment variable.
llm = OpenAI(model_name="text-davinci-003", temperature=0)

prompt = PromptTemplate(
  input_variables=["product"],
  template="What is a good name for a company that makes {product}?",
)

chain = LLMChain(llm=llm, prompt=prompt)
print(chain.run("wireless headphones"))
```

Output
```
Wireless Audio Solutions
```


## Chat models
- Chat Models are the most popular models in LangChain, such as ChatGPT that can incorporate GPT-3 or GPT-4 at its core. 
- They have gained significant attention due to their ability to learn from human feedback and their user-friendly chat interface.

- Chat Models, such as ChatGPT, take a list of messages as input and return an `AIMessage`Copy. 
- They typically use LLMs as their underlying technology, but their _APIs are more structured_ and are better suited for conversational tasks. 
- Chat Models are designed to remember previous exchanges with the user in a session and use that context to generate more relevant responses. 
- They also benefit from reinforcement learning from human feedback, which helps improve their responses. However, they may still have limitations in reasoning and require careful handling to avoid generating inappropriate content.

###### Chat message types
In LangChain, three main types of messages are used when interacting with chat models: 
1. `SystemMessage` 
2. `HumanMessage` 
3. `AIMessage`

==`SystemMessage`==
- These messages provide initial instructions, context, or data for the AI model. 
- They set the objectives the AI should follow and can help in controlling the AI's behavior. 
- System messages are not user inputs but rather guidelines for the AI to operate within.
- `SystemMessage` represents the messages generated by the system that wants to use the model, which could include instructions, notifications, or error messages. These messages are not generated by the human user or the AI chatbot but are instead produced by the underlying system to provide context, guidance, or status updates.

==`HumanMessage`==
- These messages come from the user and represent their input to the AI model. 
- The AI model is expected to respond to these messages. 
- In LangChain, you can customize the human prefix (e.g., "User") in the conversation summary to change how the human input is represented.

==`AIMessage`==
- These messages are sent from the AI's perspective as it interacts with the human user. 
- They represent the AI's responses to human input. 
- Like `HumanMessage`, you can also customize the AI prefix (e.g., "AI Assistant" or "AI") in the conversation summary to change how the AI's responses are represented.

###### An example of using ChatOpenAI with a HumanMessage
> Case-I: Single input string
- Objective: create a chatbot that can translate an English sentence into French. 
- We'll be employing multiple message types to differentiate between users' queries and system instructions instead of relying on a single prompt. This approach will enhance the model's comprehension of the given requirements.
- First, we create a list of messages, starting with a `SystemMessage` that sets the context for the chatbot, informing it that its role is to be a helpful assistant translating English to French. 
- We then follow it with a `HumanMessage` containing the user’s query, like an English sentence to be translated.
- Pass the list of messages to the chatbot using the `chat()` function.

```python
from langchain.chat_models import ChatOpenAI
from langchain.schema import HumanMessage, SystemMessage

chat = ChatOpenAI(model_name="gpt-4", temperature=0)

messages = [
	SystemMessage(content="You are a helpful assistant that translates English to French."),
	HumanMessage(content="Translate the following sentence: I love programming.")
]

chat(messages)
```

Output
```python
AIMessage(content="J'aime la programmation.", additional_kwargs={}, example=False)
```

>Case-II: Multiple input string
- Using the `generate` method, you can also generate completions for multiple sets of messages. 
- Each batch of messages can have its own `SystemMessage` and will perform independently. 

```python
batch_messages = [
  [
    SystemMessage(content="You are a helpful assistant that translates English to French."),
    HumanMessage(content="Translate the following sentence: I love programming.")
  ],
  [
    SystemMessage(content="You are a helpful assistant that translates French to English."),
    HumanMessage(content="Translate the following sentence: J'aime la programmation.")
  ],
]
print(chat.generate(batch_messages))
```

Output
```python
LLMResult(generations=[[ChatGeneration(text="J'aime la programmation.", generation_info=None, message=AIMessage(content="J'aime la programmation.", additional_kwargs={}, example=False))], [ChatGeneration(text='I love programming.', generation_info=None, message=AIMessage(content='I love programming.', additional_kwargs={}, example=False))]], llm_output={'token_usage': {'prompt_tokens': 65, 'completion_tokens': 11, 'total_tokens': 76}, 'model_name': 'gpt-4'})
```

```ad-important
As a comparison, here's what LLM and Chat Model APIs look like in LangChain.

```python
llm_output:  {'product': 'Translate the following text from English to French: Hello, how are you?', 'text': '\n\nBonjour, comment allez-vous?'}

chat_output:  content='Bonjour, comment ça va ?' additional_kwargs={} example=False
```


# Reference links
- [ChatGPT and the LLMs](https://medium.com/chatgpt-learning-asia/chatgpt-and-the-large-language-models-llms-2b4b1f6e9962)
- [LLMs Vs ChatGPT](https://www.thoughtspot.com/data-trends/ai/large-language-models-vs-chatgpt)
- [A complete guide to LangChain](https://notes.replicatecodex.com/a-complete-guide-to-langchain-building-powerful-applications-with-large-language-models/)
